Expression of Recombinant RADH
RADH cloned into the vector pET-22b(þ) was expressed
in E. coli BL21(DE3) from Novagen (Madison, WI) as
described previously (Kulig et al., 2012). Cultivation and cell
disruption procedures were described elsewhere as well
(Kulig et al., 2012).
Purification
Here three purification protocols of RADH were applied
depending on the purpose of the biochemical study. The first
was conducted without Ca2þ ions, while for the second and
third protocol 0.2 and 0.8 mmol L-1 CaCl2, respectively, were
added to all buffers. All purification steps were performed in
TEA–HCl buffer, 50 mmol L-1
, pH 7.5 supplemented with
defined concentrations of CaCl2, if needed. All purification
steps were carried out at room temperature (20–25°C).
The three-step purification protocol employed a size
exclusion chromatography (SEC) for initial desalting of the
crude cell extracts, which was necessary to allow proper
binding of the enzyme to the anion exchanger. After anion
exchange chromatography a second SEC was used in order to
remove the sodium chloride and to adjust a proper
concentration of calcium ions for enzyme storage (Kulig
et al., 2012).
Storage Stability
In order to find suitable storage conditions for RADH, the
purified and desalted enzyme was stored in four different
ways: (I) in desalting buffer (TEA–HCl, 10 mmol L-1
, pH
7.5) at 8°C, (II) same as (I) but stored at -20°C, (III) in a
mixture of 50% (v/v) glycerol and desalting buffer (stored at
-20°C) and (IV) freeze-dried and stored at -20°C. For
comparison, residual activity was followed over time using
the standard reduction assay.
SDS Electrophoresis
SDS–PAGE (Laemmli, 1970) was carried out on a 4–12%
NuPAGE1 Novex Bis–Tris gels (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA).
For protein molecular weight estimations prestained
protein ladder PageRulerTM Plus (10–250 kDa, Fermentas,
Rockfold, IL) was applied. The gel was stained in SimplyBlueTM
SafeStain (Invitrogen) or by applying SilverXpress1 Silver
Staining Kit (Invitrogen; Supplementary Information,
Fig. S4A).
Determination of the Protein Concentration
For determination of protein concentrations the Bradford
method (Bradford, 1976) was applied using bovine serum
albumin (Fermentas) as a standard, whereby the Bradford
solution was prepared by ourselves.
Determination of the Native Molecular Weight
The native molecular weight of RADH was determined by
SEC using a Superdex TM 200 column (diameter: 26 mm,
length: 63 cm, gel bed volume: 334 mL, RADH loaded:
1.7 mL, RADH concentration: 3 mg mL-1
; GE Healthcare,
Uppsala, Sweden). The column was equilibrated with
50 mmol L-1 TEA–HCl buffer, pH 7.5 containing
150 mmol L-1 NaCl. The native molecular weight of
RADH was calculated according to a calibration curve
obtained with different standard proteins (for details see
Supplementary Information, Fig. S4B).